docs(sentry-basics): Consolidate tutorials into one getting-started tutorial (#18709)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/sentry-basics/getting-started-tutorial/initialize-sentry-sdk-frontend.mdx

---
title: Add the Sentry SDK to Your Frontend Project
sidebar_order: 3
description: Learn how to add the Sentry SDK to your frontend codebase.
---

**Step 2 of 5**

<TutorialProgress step={2} />

This section walks you through how to import the sample app into your local dev environment, then add and initialize the Sentry SDK.

If you're using your own source code, you can skip this section. Instead:

- Select your [platform](/platforms/) and follow its **Getting Started** guide to add the Sentry SDK to your code.
- Then, skip to the [next step](/product/sentry-basics/getting-started-tutorial/initialize-sentry-sdk-backend/).

## 1. Clone the Sample Application

The sample application is a frontend app built with React and [Vite](https://vite.dev/).

1. Fork the [sample application's repository](https://github.com/getsentry/tracing-tutorial-frontend) on GitHub.

1. Clone the forked repository to your local environment:

   ```bash

>    git clone git@github.com:<your_username>/tracing-tutorial-frontend.git

Reviewer: I didn't have SSH set up, so this failed. Maybe say, "if you already have SSH set up, use `git clone git@github.com:<your_username>/tracing-tutorial-frontend.git`

Otherwise use `git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/tracing-tutorial-frontend.git" ?

Author: Good catch

1. Install the Sentry React SDK.

   Make sure you're in the `tracing-tutorial-frontend` project folder.

   ```bash {tabTitle:npm}
   npm install @sentry/react --save
   ```

   ```bash {tabTitle:yarn}
   yarn add @sentry/react
   ```

   ```bash {tabTitle:pnpm}
   pnpm add @sentry/react
   ```

1. Import and Initialize the SDK.

   Open `src/main.jsx` and add the following lines of code below the last import statement. It's important to import and initialize the SDK as early as possible in your app's lifecycle so Sentry can capture errors throughout it.

   ```javascript {filename:src/main.jsx}
   import * as Sentry from "@sentry/react";

   Sentry.init({
     dsn: "<your_DSN_key>",
     integrations: [
       Sentry.browserTracingIntegration(),
       Sentry.replayIntegration(),
     ],
     // Capture 100% of transactions for tracing.
     tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
     // Enable distributed tracing for requests to these targets.

>      tracePropagationTargets: ["localhost", /^https:\/\/yourserver\.io\/api/],

Reviewer: Is this: `/^https:\/\/yourserver\.io\/api/],` the standard way we represent  an example server target? It caught me a little off guard. Maybe we note as an example/placeholder? Or could be shorthand I don't know.

Author: Yeah, I updated this to make it more explicit, good catch!

## 3. Build and Run the Sample Application

In the `tracing-tutorial-frontend` project folder:

1. Install project dependencies.

   ```bash {tabTitle:npm}
   npm install
   ```

   ```bash {tabTitle:yarn}
   yarn
   ```

   ```bash {tabTitle:pnpm}
   pnpm install
   ```

1. Start the application in development mode.

   ```bash {tabTitle:npm}
   npm run dev
   ```

   ```bash {tabTitle:yarn}
   yarn dev
   ```

   ```bash {tabTitle:pnpm}
   pnpm dev
   ```

   Once the application starts, you'll see a confirmation message similar to this one in your terminal:

   ```bash
   VITE v8.1.2  ready in 312 ms

   ➜  Local:   http://localhost:3000/
   ➜  Network: use --host to expose
   ```

   > **Troubleshooting tip**: If the application fails to start due to syntax errors or missing dependencies/modules, make sure you're using Node 18+ and install dependencies again. 

1. Open the sample application in your browser.

>    The sample app should be running at [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) or the URL output in your terminal in the last step. You should see a sample e-commerce page; the buttons on this page won't work correctly and will trigger an uncaught runtime error until you get your backend up and running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The sample app should be running at [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) or the URL output in your terminal in the last step. You should see a sample e-commerce page. Click the buttons on this page to trigger an uncaught runtime error. The buttons won't work correctly until you get your backend up and running. You can follow along with what's happening in the browser by opening your browser's dev tools.
```
